And I'm in the office here in Bryan of Mr. A.W.
Davis, Sr.
And we want to talk to him about his recollections
of student life. OK. A.W. Davis, Jr. And now I'm
going to stop and see if the machine's working. OK.
First question. Why did you attend A&M in the first
place? What led you here? What caused you to come to
this place? My response would be, doctor, that
during high school years, I really had intended to
matriculate at Southern Methodist. Being a
Methodist by tradition, that sounded good to me.
And I suppose I would have done that save and except
I had a first cousin who lived in Sherman. who was in
the class of 44 and he visited me one day probably in
my junior or senior year in high school probably
senior and he said to me that he was a Baptist and he
said Southern Methodist was not the place for you
and you need to be at Texas A&M. I'm not sure I'd ever
heard of Texas A&M before but I'd have to lay it on my
cousin whose name is LT Davis. He turned out to be a
long practicing veterinarian and as I said was in
the class of 44 and now resides in Denison and I
reminded him of that conversation within the past
short months but that's the only reason I can
assign. Did you come to visit before you came down
to enroll? I came hitchhike down here in the
spring. Beautiful weather, I recall, of 1941.
There were a good handful of Wichita Falls boys at
Texas A&M.
Lord, there was Jimmy Handy, Jimmy Keel,
A good half dozen here. And I paid them a visit. They
were quartered mostly over in what we came to call
the new area. And I did see them. And I suppose had
the money to spend the night. And I don't know why I
didn't stay in the dormitory with them. Probably
could have. But I spent the night in a motel in the
block immediately south of Brass County
Courthouse as it was then and now. So I did visit
here in the spring of 1941. What was your
impression?
Well, I was age 16. I thought
it was a very peaceful place. I did not see very much
of the Corps activities. Might have seen them
march into the mess hall. I can't recall that, but I
certainly had to notice those uniforms. And of
course, It was the time to be thinking about a
uniform, and I'm not sure I was thinking about
anything, but it was the time, whether I was
thinking or not, to see what kind of uniform you'd
go wear. This was 1941. Did anybody promise you
anything if you came here? No. Nobody gave you a
sales pitch? No. I remember looking at the
catalog. the library in the high school in Wichita
Falls had a collection of catalogs and I looked at
several of them and I can remember looking at one in
regard to A&M College. Seemed to me the
matriculation fee was $25. I can't believe that's
correct but that's my memory. I read a little bit
about it. I told some people around The high school
that I was going to come to Texas A&M, I distinctly
remember one fellow and one fellow only told me
that I could come and stay in Texas A&M. Everybody
else said I could not do that. This fellow,
there were two pressing brothers that taught
school. One was an assistant principal, and I
believe that was A.K. Preston. My name was Fred in
those days, and he said, Oh, Fred, you can do that.
And I said, Mr. Preston, I'm getting ready to
graduate in the third quarter of my class. He said,
Yes, but you can do it. No one else, except my father
and mother, they knew I could do anything, but they
were highly prejudiced. Everybody else said I
could not last at Texas A&M. It had a good
reputation for people coming and some not
staying. Alright, describe the campus
physically when you arrived. What buildings were
where?
What did it look like? That's not real difficult to
do. I imagine what we now know as Texas Avenue was
probably a two-lane strip of concrete leading
from Brian, College Station 2, Houston. I was, I
can reflect now that the East Gate was every bit as
pretty then to me as it is now. At the East Gate was
the Blue Top Motel.
Probably called Tourist Court then, I'm not sure,
but that's kind of what it was. Blue Top motel, I'd
call it, a number of little individual units.
There was a restaurant at the East Gate in a
building that I've since come to know was owned by
George Ciceres, one of the outstanding members of
a clan of Greek businessmen and women in Bryan and
College. That was a restaurant. The building
still stands and is still on this date in the
Ciceres family. And Dr. Walton's old office, TT,
was there.
The semi-circular entrance to College Hills
Estate, I remember being there and having some
buildings, but the entrance to what I called the
white building, in other words, the old standby
administration building, was just as pretty then
as it is now. I also like the petroleum engineering
building. It had a beautiful,
it's called a cupola, a structure on top of the
functional building itself and I loved on let's
say Tuesday and Thursday or it was Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday I had a class in that
building. And I'd do my best to go early and maybe
even stay a little late because it was a grassy
knoll there and I could look out and see the cars.
Every now and then there'd be a car going down
Highway 6 towards Navasota. And I'd think how nice
it would be to be in one of those automobiles and get
to go somewhere.
Kyle Field, of course, was as it had been probably
since the middle 30s. I can't be certain, but there
were no second or third decks and so on. Beware
Fieldhouse, of course, was there. An old building
that I went to school in had a course in there. It was
called Pfeiffer Hall. It had to be one of the oldest
on the campus. It's now gone. Ross Hall. and Austin
Hall were there. Ross Hall was the office of the
commandant. And where were they located? Well, if
one went out the west door of the academic building
and looked towards the southern Pacific tracks,
one was to the right and one was to the left in the
same block. Gathright Hall was missing.
Gathright was said to be, and I can't be accurate
about this, but was said to be the oldest building
on the campus. It was a common practice of the
sophomores to say to a freshman, I want you to
locate Gathright Hall. As a matter of fact,
Gathright Hall was gone. There was a little marker
on the former location of Gathright, which was
adjacent to what was then called, and the building
still stands, the student exchange. Of course,
had a bugle stand out in front of Sabisa, and that
meant something. Over in the new area, where the 12
cell blocks are, at the northwest corner was a
frame building, and in that building was what I'd
call, and was called in those days, it was George's
Confectionary. George McCullough owned that
place. And he sat on a high stool and took nickels
in. Occasionally dying. Post office was in the
other end and there was a cleaner there. And you'd
get hamburgers and fountain drinks there and so
on. George McCullough later became a very good
client of mine as his family has been for years and
years.
The dormitories opposite what was called Campus
Theater at the North Gate,
we call that the New New Area. There were four or
five dormitories built in the spring or summer,
spring, I suppose, in 1942. Other than that, the
most recent dormitories on the campus has been the
New Area, which is 12 dormitories. They were there
in 1941. Just your impression of the academic
building. Oh, I was in there a bunch. And it did
appear to me that it was larger than Wichita Falls
Senior High School, I'll say that. I had a lot of
classes there. And it was enormous, and it was huge
to me. And I'm glad it's still there. How were fish
treated during your freshman year? Describe
being a fish in 1941.
That's easy. That is a part of my indelible memory.
When I came here in September of 1941, I had been
late registering, and I could not live with a
military unit to which I had been assigned, which
was 3rd Headquarters Battery on a field
artillery, number four in the new area. I lived
about 10 days in Bazell Hall, which was a part of the
Coastal Artillery Regiment. And I soon asked
somebody where Bazell Hall was, and I was
approaching the building, and the sophomore
fellow said to me, pick that footlocker up and
follow me. And we went to the fourth floor of Bazell
Hall. That was my orientation
and from then on it went down. Freshman life at
Texas A&M is hard to describe in a way that might be
believed because people would be incredulous
truly about what went on. Short of the
incarceration of the Vietnam prisoners of war, it
had to be the worst say, four to five months of
existence has anybody ever lived in the free
world. Do you want to hear more? A freshman wore a
white strap on the cuff of their left sleeve, and
that stayed on there the entire freshman year, and
that entitled you to walk in the streets. did not
entitle you to sit in any park bench on the Indian
campus unless you were with a visitor. It entitled
you to attend bleep meetings. Bleep meetings were
orientation sessions conducted by sophomores in
the halls of the dormitories whereupon you were
instructed how to attend to your business. And
those were important instructions in a sense. And
in another sense, even if you followed them, it got
you nowhere. You were in a heck of a mess until they
eased up, say, in March of our freshman year. Every
now and then, a freshman would commit an error of
commission or omission of sufficient magnitude
to even get the juniors and seniors involved. And
when that happened, it was truly the end of the
world. As far as I know, every unit on the campus,
and certainly the one I was in, believed in liberal
applications of the board. That meant a baseball
bat
trimmed to a smooth surface in the middle of the
bat. And it, at least that's what it resembled. And
these boards were prevalent, most of them in the
hands of softball. And they would tell you to grab a
pooch. That meant that you would tighten the
muscles in your rumpus and turn your rumpus to
them. And they would administer three severe legs
to your posterior anatomy and it hurt. But that was
the easiest part. The toughest part of it was the
push-ups, holding the wall up, and all the other
physical and mental things that went with it. It
was severe. About how often did that occur? You
mean the bleed meeting? Or at least once or twice a
week.
the application, were the number of bleed
meetings comparatively similar unit to unit? I
would think so. Of course, I was never in a unit. Oh,
with minor exception except my own because you
were obligated to go to class and you were
obligated to do that. And you were obligated to
come back to your room. You were allowed, of
course, to go to the post office. That was
accomplished to and from the classroom. You could
go to some athletic events. That is to say, you
certainly could go to a football game, but you
couldn't go to all basketball games because there
were certain study requirements. You had to be in
your room with the door closed and that kind of
thing. But you couldn't go up to the north gate
unless a sophomore or a classmate was sending you
Were freshman roommates special? Fish, old lady,
did you have a special friend who? I roomed with a
boy named Angus Dixon, who was a good student and a
nice fellow from Terrell, Texas. I later roomed
with Dickie Haas, my old partner from Corpus
Christi, now deceased. Pete Slaughter came along
somewhere. Boy, this was after the war. that I knew
Pete best, a class of 44 boy from Houston. Oh, yes,
you freshmen lived with freshmen, sophomores
lived with sophomores, and so on. You were a room
orderly to somebody, some upperclassmen. And you
attended to making their beds and did not shine
shoes. You did not do that. But you did make those
beds, and you did police the room and as a matter of
fact my clothes still hang in my closet with the
coat hangers pointing all in one direction in a
certain space from each other and it's just as
orderly as it was in 1941 because they taught me
very quickly. What about life in the in the dining
hall? Describe dining in Duncan Hall I guess it was
in your case.
Everybody marched to the mess hall three times a
day. There probably was some compulsion to that.
Very few meals were missed, and there's more than
one reason, as I recall. One of them was the food was
excellent. The main food service fellow on the
campus at that time was named Mr. Hotar. And he and
his folks did a superior job. I remember it being
excellent food. There was noise in the mess hall.
It was family service. You, of course, had some
strict things to observe. You weren't going to
serve yourself before every upperclassman was
served. But I don't recall a great deal of
disturbance in the mess hall. They did allow you to
eat. I ate well. Were there any names for various
food items? Oh, yeah. I can't recall. Bonac was any
kind of meat. like me saw was saying any kind of
dessert was cush. It seems to me freshmen did not
eat cushion until after Thanksgiving. That was
supposed to help you beat Texas in football. Let me
think. I think mustard was baby. I can't remember.
I'm having difficulty with that. But they are
pretty well named. I think Cal Yes, and bull
wasn't, I think, any kind of bread. They all had
names. Let's see, did you all ever attempt any
pranks at mealtime? Any tricks, games? I devoted
most of my subversive activity to trying to get
Cush. I don't recall any organized activity in the
mess hall. As a matter of fact, you could do what you
wanted to, but you paid an enormous price. The
freshman life at Texas A&M has been helpful to me
because since then, I have been involved in
numerous jams of all kinds. It seems like I can get
in trouble and get my plow hung without any
difficulty at all. And in the darkest moments, I
will I have always been able to reflect this is not
as bad as a fish year at A&M. It's given me a standard
and I've never excelled at it. Was your outfit
special to you as you look back in shaping you,
forming you? There were some great and good fellas
in third and head quarterback at the field
artillery regiment. It only lasted and was in
existence about four, perhaps five years,
something had happened before I arrived that
caused Third Headquarters Battery to be
organized. And it, one of its, maybe its first
commander was Billy Joel. Oh, mercy and
embarrassment, Billy Joel. He taught an
executive development course in the business
college at A&M. For years and years. Billy Joe
McAdams. Billy Joe Adams. Good guy. He had been the
battery commander. He was gone when I arrived.
Jack Taylor, a fellow from Irene, who was a good
soldier, if there ever was one, was the battery
commander. And after that was a fellow named Tudor
Ball from Uvalde. And after that, a fellow named
Bob Parker, who lived then at Robie, now lives in
Paris, Texas. Yeah, it was a great outfit. We had
good soldiers. Except for me. I had a difficult
time. Take me, describe, if you will, a typical
class day. When did it start? What happened when?
When did it end?
Well, in those days, by golly, it was not unusual.
As a matter of fact, I'd say it was unusual that a
student took 18 hours. That included a certain
amount of military service.
I didn't pass any of them, but I took them. And you
certainly had to be up early in the morning. The
hour escapes me, but you had to have time to get your
room in shape and get your Lord and Master's room in
shape. Did you wake up on your own? What awakened
you? No, there was a bugle that was blown down in
front of Duncan Hall and over the people in the
other area, the older part of the campus at Bugle
Stand, right by the old Calvary dormitories down
from the space of it. You had to have that done by
breakfast time, and then you marched to
breakfast. You returned, probably brushed your
teeth, got out in the free world going to class if
you had an 8 o'clock class. classes then
were Monday through Friday and Saturday morning.
And sometime that week in the afternoon you would
have a drill
where the unit would participate in some kind of
military exercise. Post-order drill or service
of the peace or whatever it might have been. Where
and how long would that occur? Where did you all
drill? Close order drill would likely be
conducted right in the dormitory area. But by the
time I was a sophomore, perhaps even four, we would
march down to the field artillery stables. My
battery was a horse-drawn unit. And the cavalry
and the field artillery had many horses. on what's
now called the west campus. The staples were right
west of the railroad tracks that now exist. And you
would saddle those horses, put them on in the
pieces, to pull the pieces. And you might go to the
Brazzers spot. Other times, you'd run problems,
military exercises for field artillery. in
what's now called Hensel Park. Many times we've
done that. And you learn how to operate
a feel-like inner battery. If you had an
unscheduled afternoon, what'd you do? I
don't know that this speaks to the afternoon, but
it certainly would speak to the early evening.
Inner murals was a big part Texas A&M at the time had
all kinds of intramural activities, and I don't
know that you had to participate in it, but you were
encouraged to do so. And they began in the late
afternoon and so on before dinner that evening,
softball, football, everything, boxing,
whatever might have been the time to do. Was it
easy, though, for a freshman to go over and sack out
in the afternoon in his room? Oh, you didn't do
that. Freshmen change places. That is to say, I had
freshmen from the infantry regiment come to my
room because my sophomores were not bothered. So I
had to go over to their place and seek a little
refuge. You did that occasionally. It wasn't
altogether customary, but you could do that on
occasion. All right, then now we're getting ready
for supper. Tell me the routine of getting ready
and whatever happened before supper. I thought
that was a great time. You knew what time that event
was going to go down. And you assembled in the
battery area, the battery walk, let's say, that
led directly to Duncan. And Captain Jack Taylor
would take his position. field artillery
regiment on the west and the infantry regiment on
the east. And dormitory,
I guess, dormitory on the east closest to Duncan
Hall would be 11. I believe that's correct. The
band was there in those days. 12 was occupied by the
scholarship athletes. At a later time they were
moved into the units. But at that time, early
freshman days, they lived in 12. Anyway, it was a
marvelous time. It rained once in a while, but when
it wasn't, I kind of liked that. It was a little
retreat. I kind of liked the sound of the vehicle,
and you could hear these commanders giving the
command down the line. I kind of liked that a little
bit. And for that few brief moments, sophomores
weren't fooling with you. Okay, then you went in
and ate. Then after supper, what happened? You
went to your room shortly. Not much hiatus there at
all. And did what? You were supposed to stay. I'm
sure. I said, my desk is asleep. But you were
supposed to stay. How long? I can't recall. I would
say that lights out were probably, I'm guessing,
maybe 9.30, 10 perhaps. I don't know. How did you
dress? What did you wear to class and the dining
hall? We wore a uniform. They'd tell you what the
uniform of the day was, that is to say, You knew, but
you didn't know about jackets or raincoats or
whatever that announced that. First Sergeant, I
recall, would announce that. And you wore
uniforms all the time. Period. What kind of head?
Oh, mercy. What was the finest headgear that
there's ever been? A campaign hat. Except when you
had on the old blue lapel. Class A ROTC uniform for a
parade or something such as that, and then you wore
a garrison cap. But the campaign hats were
marvelous. They really were. What about jokes,
pranks, good bull from any of your years, either
that you knew about or perhaps participated in or
observed? Can you share any? Oh, they had a lot of
things going. It's hard for me to recall. Probably
the worst thing that happened, me and three or four
others in my unit, was during the fall, sometime,
we were placed in the doghouse. And the doghouse
meant strictly, no, you were out of your room for
one purpose, and that was to go to class. Other than
that, you were in your room at all times. And we had
to... very much like the Vietnam fellow, we had to
find a way to communicate from the second floor to
the third floor and that kind of thing. And there
was always this old deal of taking a cow into
somebody's, into somebody's dormitory room, you
understand, trying to get them upstairs and
perhaps spend the weekend in there and come back
and find the mess. But let me tell you, there wasn't
It
took a brave freshman to do very much. But even as an
upperclassman, did anybody's footlocker ever
get missing? The biggest prank-type deal that I
can recall, one that I abhorred, was a drowning out
whereby a bucket of water would be tossed into
somebody's room. It seemed like they wanted to
pick on mine And that meant that I had to clean it up.
I deplored that activity, but drowning out was a
big deal.
How did life change for a sophomore? It got worse
for me. Everybody else had it better, but I got
worse.
My sophomore year, we moved from number four